# anonstat
Make statistics collection ethical again.

## Background
Nowadays collection of statistics looks more like spying, in fact it really is. It uses all possible forms of tracking users. It starts from some easiest actions like saving your IP and even MAC-addreses. Then it goes further. People who do this are producing such horrible practices as fingerprints, based on hardware differences. For example, they are drawing little canvases in your browser for few hundreds times in a row with mutlitple minor differences (say hello to your PC performance when you are browsing your dear facebook); you cannot even see this canvases because of their implementation, but this drawing uses your GPU directly and in various browsers paired with many GPUs this set of resulting canvases will be different. This information is used to indentify people against their will (is your favorite facebook and youtube asked your permissions for this?) and now this it not just an information, this becomes a product.

Unfortunately, advertising industry is a huge field of human activity. Due to increasing supply manufacturers are trying to increase people's demand of their products. To force people buy things which they would never have bought normally, they don't feel ashamed to use any available methods. Giant corporations spend billions of dollars every year to lobby the laws that are convenient to them and making easier to implement their aggressive marketing politics.

The collection of statistics, that contain information of what sites get visited by users and what action they performed there as well as further matching real people with those users — this is a precise description of spying. And this is what international corporations are doing now. But with one little distinction, that actually people are not bothering them. People for them are not even human beings for now. They are only markening units, that could be sold and bought.

So, why this statistics are so important to them and they are ready to spend their personal money to do this? It's just because their profits increase because of this will be always more that amount of money they are spent for it, otherwise they would have been bankrupt long ago. This is how open markets work. Information, what the user has been done yesterday and what he will be interested with a high probability tomorrow, opens a vast platform for advertising networks and their activity. Corporations will pay much more money for advertisement, if it will cause more clients and purchasers of their products. And advertising targeting can provide this «improvement». Just rethink, why when you watch some video on youtube about the videogame you would want to play, immediatelly an ad with the sale of this game appears on almost every site you are visiting often (let's just imagine that you didn't install ads blocking extention into your browser, just for this consideration)? And the important part of this — simple cookie deleting or changing IP (even MAC) won't help to prevent this, just because of the things described above. Some peole could say: «Hey, but why is this wrong? This is just comfortable that I could do the purchase with no efforts of finding this game manually in the store!». The only thing that I could say to this people is remember the famous quote of Benjamin Franklin: «People willing to trade their freedom for temporary security deserve neither and will lose both». Is this really «safety» do not do some little «excess» efforts for usual things in your life worth this total spying?

In this situation no one is bothering about people's feelings, ethics and all these ridiculous to the media giants and ads networks things. It's just increases their profits and this is enoght reason to do this no matter what. And just yet another sad thing there is that people, who are using such tools, like Google Analytics©®™, not always are evil and often don't even want to be involved in this awful spying on the users. They are just using it in order to know how much people reading their blogs and watching their photos, and often those peole don't even know what kind of a turd they are including into their personal sites.

## About
Basing on this background, people forgot, that collection of visitor's statistics may be used just for showing how much people (and bots) visited some page and may not contain any personal data. By the way, this is what exactly I'm doing here.

